Add proteogenomic methods (#80)
d3b-center/OpenPedCan-methods: content/06.methods.md

We harmonized data from the Therapeutically Applicable Research to Generate Effective Treatments (TARGET cohort) Initiative, an NCI-funded collection of disease-specific projects that seeks to identify the genomic changes of pediatric cancers [@dbgap:phs000218.v23.p8].
We included already harmonized neuroblastoma samples from the Gabriella Miller Kids First (GMKF cohort) Pediatric Research Program, a large-scale effort to accelerate research and gene discovery in pediatric cancers and structural birth defects [@dbgap:phs001436.v1.p1].
Additionally, we re-harmonized all samples from the Open Pediatric Brain Tumor Atlas (OpenPBTA, PBTA cohort), an open science initiative led by Alex’s Lemonade Stand Foundation Childhood Cancer Data Lab and the Center for Data-Driven Discovery (D3B) at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP), which genomically characterized pediatric brain tumor data from the Children’s Brain Tumor Network (CBTN), and the Pacific Pediatric Neuro-oncology Consortium (PNOC) [@dbgap:phs002517.v1.p1; @doi:10.1016/j.xgen.2023.100340].

> Building on the work of OpenPBTA, OPC contains additional data from the following studies:
> - PBTA X01 [@https://commonfund.nih.gov/kidsfirst/2021X01projects#FY21_Resnick]
> - Chordoma Foundation [@https://www.chordomafoundation.org/]
> - MI-ONCOSEQ Study [@https://www.pathology.med.umich.edu/mctp/mi-oncoseq-study], donated to CBTN by the University of Michigan, to the PBTA cohort
> - Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) P30 Panel data generated by CHOP's Division of Genomic Diagnostics (DGD cohort) which includes targeted DNA and fusion panel data [@dbgap:phs002517.v1.p1].
> - National Cancer Institute's Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) PBTA proteomics study [@doi:10.1016/j.cell.2020.10.044]
> - CPTAC adult GBM proteomics study [@doi:10.1016/j.ccell.2021.01.006]
> - Project HOPE adolescent and young adult high-grade glioma proteomics study (in preparation for publication)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building on the work of OpenPBTA, OPC contains additional data from the following studies:

- PBTA X01 [@https://commonfund.nih.gov/kidsfirst/2021X01projects#FY21_Resnick]
- Chordoma Foundation [@https://www.chordomafoundation.org]
- MI-ONCOSEQ Study [@https://www.pathology.med.umich.edu/mctp/mi-oncoseq-study], donated to CBTN by the University of Michigan, to the PBTA cohort
- Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) P30 Panel data generated by CHOP's Division of Genomic Diagnostics (DGD cohort) which includes targeted DNA and fusion panel data [@dbgap:phs002517.v1.p1].
- National Cancer Institute's Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) PBTA proteomics study [@doi:10.1016/j.cell.2020.10.044]
- CPTAC adult GBM proteomics study [@doi:10.1016/j.ccell.2021.01.006]
- Project HOPE adolescent and young adult high-grade glioma proteomics study (in preparation for publication)
```

This currently isn't rendering as a bulleted list, but I think adding a line break will resolve?

The CPTAC GBM and HOPE spectra data were analyzed with MS-GF+ v9881 [@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btv437; @doi:10.1038/ncomms6277; @doi:10.1186/1471-2164-15-S1-S9] searching against the RefSeq human protein sequence database downloaded on June 29, 2018 (hg38; 41,734 proteins), combined with 264 contaminants, and a decoy database composed of the forward and reversed protein sequences. 

##### Protein Quantification and Data Analysis
Relative protein (gene) abundance was calculated as the ratio of sample abundance to reference abundance using the summed reporter ion intensities from peptides mapped to the respective gene. 
For phosphoproteomic datasets, data were not summarized by protein but left at the phosphopeptide level. 
Global normalization was performed on the gene-level abundance matrix (log2 ratio) for global proteomic and on the site-level abundance matrix (log2 ratio) for phosphoproteomic data. 
The median, log2 relative protein or peptide abundance for each sample was calculated and used to normalize each sample to achieve a common median of 0. 

> To identify TMT outliers, inter-TMT t-tests were performed for each individual protein or phospho peptide. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To identify TMT outliers, inter-TMT t-tests were performed for each individual protein or phosphopeptide. 
```

> Batch effects were checked using the log2 relative protein or phospho peptide abundance and corrected using the Combat algorithm [@doi:10.1038/nbt1240]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Batch effects were checked using the log2 relative protein or phosphopeptide abundance and corrected using the Combat algorithm [@doi:10.1038/nbt1240]. 
```
